docs/ref-arch/RA0013/readme.md, before:

---
id: id-ra0013
slug: /ref-arch/f5b6b597a6
sidebar_position: 13
sidebar_custom_props:
  category_index:
    - data
    - aws
    - azure
    - gcp
title: Transforming Enterprise Data Strategy with SAP Business Data Cloud
description: >-
  SAP Business Data Cloud (BDC) unifies SAP and non-SAP data, enabling advanced
  analytics, governance, and AI-driven insights. With tools like SAP Datasphere,
  SAP Analytics Cloud, and Databricks integration, SAP BDC addresses data silos,
  improves data quality, and supports real-time processing. Modernize legacy
  systems, create reusable data products, and leverage a unified semantic model
  for scalable, future-ready enterprise data strategies.
keywords:
  - sap
  - bdc
  - business
  - data
  - cloud
sidebar_label: Transforming Enterprise Data Strategy with SAP Business Data Cloud
image: img/ac-soc-med.png
tags:
  - data
  - aws
  - azure
  - gcp
hide_table_of_contents: false
hide_title: false
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
draft: false
unlisted: false
contributors:
  - jasoncwluo
  - jmsrpp
  - anbazhagan-uma
  - s-krishnamoorthy
  - peterfendt
discussion: 
last_update:
  author: jmsrpp
  date: 2025-05-10
---

SAP Business Data Cloud (BDC) is a modern solution and part of a comprehensive strategy for enterprise data designed to address complex enterprise data management challenges. By integrating SAP's application ecosystem with advanced data capabilities, SAP BDC provides a unified platform for managing SAP and non-SAP data, enabling streamlined analytics, governance, and AI-driven insights.

## Architecture

![drawio](drawio/sap-bdc.drawio)

## Why a Modern Data Architecture is Critical

In the era of AI, organizations require scalable and efficient data architectures to manage growing volumes of data and extract actionable insights. Key drivers for adopting modern data architectures include:

- **AI Model Requirements**: High-quality, diverse datasets are essential for AI model training and deployment.
- **Data Integration**: Unified architectures simplify data integration across systems and platforms.
- **Real-time Processing**: Architectures capable of handling real-time data streams are critical for operational agility.
- **Data Security and Governance**: Robust frameworks ensure compliance and data protection.
- **Adaptability**: Flexible architectures support evolving technologies and use cases.

## Architecture and Design Principles of SAP Business Data Cloud

SAP Business Data Cloud integrates tools like SAP Datasphere, SAP Analytics Cloud and SAP Databricks into a unified architecture, creating a semantically rich environment for data management, analytics and data science.

### Core Design Principles

1. **Flexible Storage Architecture**: Supports diverse storage options tailored to organizational needs.
2. **Open Data Consumption**: Provides access to data via multiple tools and applications.
3. **Data Gravity**: Processes data in-place to minimize movement and duplication.
4. **Integrated Data Management**: Offers tools for governance, quality control, and lifecycle management.
5. **Zero-Copy Sharing**: Enables efficient sharing of data without redundancy.
6. **Unified Semantic Model**: Harmonizes data definitions across SAP and non-SAP systems for consistency.

## Key Components of SAP Business Data Cloud

1. **SAP Datasphere** - SAP Datasphere is the technical cornerstone of BDC, offering:

    -   A unified environment for data integration, warehousing, and governance.
    -   Flexible integrated data tiering (object, disk-based and in-memory store) provide cost-efficient persistence layer
    -   Advanced features for analytical data modeling, transformation, and integration.
    -   Tools to extract valuable insights and drive business innovation.
    -   Framework for creation of own data products 

2. **SAP Analytics Cloud** - SAP Analytics Cloud provides:

    - Advanced analytics and planning capabilities.
    - Real-time insights powered by AI and machine learning.
    - Seamless integration with SAP Datasphere for unified data analysis.

3. **SAP Databricks** - The partnership between SAP and Databricks enhances data science (AI, ML) capabilities by:

    -   Enabling advanced analytics and data science on SAP and non-SAP data
    -   ML Flows for ML Operations, Mosaic AI for model training & serving and Notebooks with coding assistant and visualizations
    -   Serverless Spark offerings aim to simplify big data processing
    -   replication-free access of SAP data products and integration with Unity catalogue.
  
4. **Insight Apps and Data Products** - Highlight of SAP BDC are the Insight Apps and SAP-managed Data Products:

    -   ready-to-use, standarized business data object and data applications, provided and operated by SAP
    -   minimize effort for build and run of analytical and data science applications
    -   Promote data consistency and reusability.
    -   Serve as modular, reusable assets for analytical models or AI/ML workflows.
      
5. **Unified Semantic Layer** - At the core of BDC is its unified semantic model, which:

    -   Standardizes data definitions across SAP and non-SAP systems
    -   Simplified zero-copy data access via standardized delta-share Interface supports cross-domain analytics and AI applications
    -   Centralized cross application catalogue for data products and Insight apps.

## Addressing Data Management Challenges

SAP BDC resolves common technical challenges faced by organizations modernizing their data infrastructures:

1. **Eliminating Data Silos and Data Replication**: Provides a unified architecture for seamless collaboration across systems and technologies.
2. **Centralized SAP data catalogue and Enhancing Data Discoverability**: Improves visibility into available datasets and their utilization.
3. **Improving Data Quality**: Ensures high-quality datasets through governance and standardization tools.
4. **Simplifying Technology Stacks**: Reduces complexity by consolidating data management into a single platform.

## Innovations in SAP Business Data Cloud

1. Modernization of SAP BW Systems

    -   Integrating SAP BW and BW/4HANA systems with BDC for advanced analytical and AI/ML use cases
    -   Shifting BW to a modern, more standardized data product based architecture
    -   Innovating and supporting business departments by predefined insight apps and SAP-managed data products.

2. Insight apps and Data Products as a service

    -   Curated datasets optimized for analytical and AI/ML use cases
    -   data extraction,loading and transformation managed by SAP
    -   Modular and reusable data solutions to reduce development efforts.

3. Integration with Databricks

    -   replication-free access of SAP data products and integration with Unity catalogue.
    -   Enables serverless Spark processing and advanced AI/ML capabilities through SAP Databricks partnership.

## Use Cases for SAP Business Data Cloud

1. Moving towards a business data fabric approach with standardized data products and Insight apps
   
    -   Usage of SAP-managed and data products and Insight Apps
    -   Extensions by customer-developed tailored analytics and AI applications leveraging harmonized data.

4. Data Science and AI with high-quality enterprise data

    -   Utilize advanced analytics and AI/ML workflows on unified datasets.
    -   zero-copy and replication free access of data

5. SAP BW Modernization

    -   Migrate/shift BW Systems step-by-step to cloud-native architectures for scalability and real-time analytics.
    -   Innovate your business with predefined Insight Apps and out-of-the-box integration with Databricks for AI/ML use cases

## SAP Learning Journey

[Introducing SAP Business Data Cloud](https://learning.sap.com/learning-journeys/introducing-sap-business-data-cloud)

## Conclusion

SAP Business Data Cloud (BDC) lays a strong foundation for modern enterprise data management by breaking down data silos, ensuring governance, and streamlining integration. With unified data access and advanced analytics capabilities, BDC empowers organizations to modernize their infrastructure and harness AI-driven insights.

By adopting SAP BDC, businesses can boost operational efficiency, accelerate decision-making, and build scalable architectures for future innovation. Its unified semantic model, open ecosystem and seamless AI integration, make it a strategic asset for data-driven enterprises.

As enterprises evolve, success will hinge on unified, semantically rich environments that support both innovation and transformation. SAP BDC delivers this capability, helping organizations unlock the full value of your data.

Commit message:

refactor SAP BDC and Intelligent Application usage (#353)
* refactor SAP BDC and Intelligent Application usage

* update last modified

docs/ref-arch/RA0013/readme.md, after:

---
id: id-ra0013
slug: /ref-arch/f5b6b597a6
sidebar_position: 13
sidebar_custom_props:
  category_index:
    - data
    - aws
    - azure
    - gcp
title: Transforming Enterprise Data Strategy with SAP Business Data Cloud
description: >-
  SAP Business Data Cloud (SAP BDC) unifies SAP and non-SAP data, enabling advanced
  analytics, governance, and AI-driven insights. With tools like SAP Datasphere,
  SAP Analytics Cloud, and Databricks integration, SAP BDC addresses data silos,
  improves data quality, and supports real-time processing. Modernize legacy
  systems, create reusable data products, and leverage a unified semantic model
  for scalable, future-ready enterprise data strategies.
keywords:
  - sap
  - bdc
  - business
  - data
  - cloud
sidebar_label: Transforming Enterprise Data Strategy with SAP Business Data Cloud
image: img/ac-soc-med.png
tags:
  - data
  - aws
  - azure
  - gcp
hide_table_of_contents: false
hide_title: false
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 4
draft: false
unlisted: false
contributors:
  - jasoncwluo
  - jmsrpp
  - anbazhagan-uma
  - s-krishnamoorthy
  - peterfendt
discussion: 
last_update:
  author: jmsrpp
  date: 2025-05-19
---

SAP Business Data Cloud (SAP BDC) is a modern solution and part of a comprehensive strategy for enterprise data designed to address complex enterprise data management challenges. By integrating SAP's application ecosystem with advanced data capabilities, SAP BDC provides a unified platform for managing SAP and non-SAP data, enabling streamlined analytics, governance, and AI-driven insights.

## Architecture

![drawio](drawio/sap-bdc.drawio)

## Why a Modern Data Architecture is Critical

In the era of AI, organizations require scalable and efficient data architectures to manage growing volumes of data and extract actionable insights. Key drivers for adopting modern data architectures include:

- **AI Model Requirements**: High-quality, diverse datasets are essential for AI model training and deployment.
- **Data Integration**: Unified architectures simplify data integration across systems and platforms.
- **Real-time Processing**: Architectures capable of handling real-time data streams are critical for operational agility.
- **Data Security and Governance**: Robust frameworks ensure compliance and data protection.
- **Adaptability**: Flexible architectures support evolving technologies and use cases.

## Architecture and Design Principles of SAP Business Data Cloud

SAP Business Data Cloud integrates tools like SAP Datasphere, SAP Analytics Cloud and SAP Databricks into a unified architecture, creating a semantically rich environment for data management, analytics and data science.

### Core Design Principles

1. **Flexible Storage Architecture**: Supports diverse storage options tailored to organizational needs.
2. **Open Data Consumption**: Provides access to data via multiple tools and applications.
3. **Data Gravity**: Processes data in-place to minimize movement and duplication.
4. **Integrated Data Management**: Offers tools for governance, quality control, and lifecycle management.
5. **Zero-Copy Sharing**: Enables efficient sharing of data without redundancy.
6. **Unified Semantic Model**: Harmonizes data definitions across SAP and non-SAP systems for consistency.

## Key Components of SAP Business Data Cloud

1. **SAP Datasphere** - SAP Datasphere is the technical cornerstone of SAP BDC, offering:

    -   A unified environment for data integration, warehousing, and governance.
    -   Flexible integrated data tiering (object, disk-based and in-memory store) provide cost-efficient persistence layer
    -   Advanced features for analytical data modeling, transformation, and integration.
    -   Tools to extract valuable insights and drive business innovation.
    -   Framework for creation of own data products 

2. **SAP Analytics Cloud** - SAP Analytics Cloud provides:

    - Advanced analytics and planning capabilities.
    - Real-time insights powered by AI and machine learning.
    - Seamless integration with SAP Datasphere for unified data analysis.

3. **SAP Databricks** - The partnership between SAP and Databricks enhances data science (AI, ML) capabilities by:

    -   Enabling advanced analytics and data science on SAP and non-SAP data
    -   ML Flows for ML Operations, Mosaic AI for model training & serving and Notebooks with coding assistant and visualizations
    -   Serverless Spark offerings aim to simplify big data processing
    -   replication-free access of SAP data products and integration with Unity catalogue.
  
4. **Intelligent Applications and Data Products** - A highlight of SAP BDC are the Intelligent Applications and SAP-managed Data Products:

    -   ready-to-use, standarized business data object and data applications, provided and operated by SAP
    -   minimize effort for build and run of analytical and data science applications
    -   Promote data consistency and reusability.
    -   Serve as modular, reusable assets for analytical models or AI/ML workflows.
      
5. **Unified Semantic Layer** - At the core of SAP BDC is its unified semantic model, which:

    -   Standardizes data definitions across SAP and non-SAP systems
    -   Simplified zero-copy data access via standardized delta-share Interface supports cross-domain analytics and AI applications
    -   Centralized cross application catalogue for data products and Intelligent Applications.

## Addressing Data Management Challenges

SAP BDC resolves common technical challenges faced by organizations modernizing their data infrastructures:

1. **Eliminating Data Silos and Data Replication**: Provides a unified architecture for seamless collaboration across systems and technologies.
2. **Centralized SAP data catalogue and Enhancing Data Discoverability**: Improves visibility into available datasets and their utilization.
3. **Improving Data Quality**: Ensures high-quality datasets through governance and standardization tools.
4. **Simplifying Technology Stacks**: Reduces complexity by consolidating data management into a single platform.

## Innovations in SAP Business Data Cloud

1. Modernization of SAP BW Systems

    -   Integrating SAP BW and BW/4HANA systems with SAP BDC for advanced analytical and AI/ML use cases
    -   Shifting BW to a modern, more standardized data product based architecture
    -   Innovating and supporting business departments by predefined Intelligent Applications and SAP-managed data products.

2. Intelligent Applications and Data Products as a service

    -   Curated datasets optimized for analytical and AI/ML use cases
    -   data extraction,loading and transformation managed by SAP
    -   Modular and reusable data solutions to reduce development efforts.

3. Integration with Databricks

    -   replication-free access of SAP data products and integration with Unity catalogue.
    -   Enables serverless Spark processing and advanced AI/ML capabilities through SAP Databricks partnership.

## Use Cases for SAP Business Data Cloud

1. Moving towards a business data fabric approach with standardized data products and Intelligent Applications
   
    -   Usage of SAP-managed and data products and Intelligent Applications
    -   Extensions by customer-developed tailored analytics and AI applications leveraging harmonized data.

4. Data Science and AI with high-quality enterprise data

    -   Utilize advanced analytics and AI/ML workflows on unified datasets.
    -   zero-copy and replication free access of data

5. SAP BW Modernization

    -   Migrate/shift BW Systems step-by-step to cloud-native architectures for scalability and real-time analytics.
    -   Innovate your business with predefined Intelligent Applications and out-of-the-box integration with Databricks for AI/ML use cases

## SAP Learning Journey

[Introducing SAP Business Data Cloud](https://learning.sap.com/learning-journeys/introducing-sap-business-data-cloud)

## Conclusion

SAP Business Data Cloud (SAP BDC) lays a strong foundation for modern enterprise data management by breaking down data silos, ensuring governance, and streamlining integration. With unified data access and advanced analytics capabilities, SAP BDC empowers organizations to modernize their infrastructure and harness AI-driven insights.

By adopting SAP BDC, businesses can boost operational efficiency, accelerate decision-making, and build scalable architectures for future innovation. Its unified semantic model, open ecosystem and seamless AI integration, make it a strategic asset for data-driven enterprises.

As enterprises evolve, success will hinge on unified, semantically rich environments that support both innovation and transformation. SAP BDC delivers this capability, helping organizations unlock the full value of your data.
